#Scaffold CSS Framework (Project Name)

##Created by:

	Anthony Short (anthony@anthonyshort.com.au)
	
##Changelog:
  
	27th December 2008
		- Made some changes to the CSS.

##Supported Browsers:
 
	- IE6+  
	- Safari 3+ 
	- Firefox 2+
	      
##Notes: 

	1. --------------------------
	
	This stylesheet is processed with CSS Cacheer. Any CSS
	files from /css that are linked to in the HTML, are parsed
	through a series of PHP scripts. You'll notice some syntax
	which isn't native to CSS - this is code which the scripts
	recognise and parse.  
	
	For more information read this blog post
		http://www.shauninman.com/archive/2008/05/30/check_out_css_cacheer
		
	2. --------------------------
	
	For content styling (ie. Blog posts), use the styles inside content.css
	
##Directory Structure

	The directories promote convention across sites. Here is an explanation of
	each of the directories and their contents.
	
###Browser-Specific

	The browser specific folder is used for the stylesheets for particular browsers,
	usually ie6 and ie7. These are referenced in the markup in the head in 
	conditional comments.

###Fonts

	Holds custom .ttf and .eot font files for use with the css. Supported browsers
	will grab these fonts directly, however, non-supported browsers will be given
	an image from these fonts generated by PHP.

###Images

	Images used specifically by the css.

###Sections

	Major generic areas of the CSS are placed here. This includes forms and typography by default
	and may contain layout at a later date.

###Snippets

	Small bits of css used during development or that are used across many projects and are unchanged.
	This includes reset.css. 

###System

	The CSS-Cacheer folder which processes the css. This shouldn't need to be touched by the user.
	

